Hello this is Kirill from Farley's dot com.
And welcome back to the series of tutorials on testing and optimization and meditated for today's return
them five.
And we're going to be talking about the different models that are available for back tests and megatrend
for the models can be found here in this dropdown menu.
And as you can see there are three distinct models for back tests which are every tick control points
and open prices.
And today we will discuss benefits and drawbacks of each one of these models and most importantly we
will understand when and why to use either of these models for your back tests.
So without further ado let's proceed to the presentation for today.
Testing models.
Let's look at a scenario.
We have three bars to bullish one Barish and let's assume that we're working on a 15 minute timeframe
.
As you all probably know though it's the open high low and close prices.
First of all the open prices model the open prices model is the most basic out of the three models and
all it does is it looks at the open price for every single bar so assuming that we have four bars including
this next one or we hear the open prices model will only take into account for reference points which
it will use in the back test.
So as you can see that's why it's very basic and that's why it's also very quick because it doesn't
take much time to just look at one price for every bar next model is the control points model the control
points model is the next step up from the open prices model what it does is it takes a bit more effort
.
Point reference points and took months to understand this better let's look at this bar in the middle
let's zoom in because it's an M 15 bar.
It is actually constructed of three and five bars.
So what the control points model will do is it'll take the open low high and close prices for every
single one of these bars.
Making that three times for 12 reference points.
What it will then do is it will model the ticks in between those reference points so therefore there
will be much more ticks in the control points model and they will all be used for the back test.
And finally the every take moral of every tick model is the most precise of the three and it is the
most precise you can get in a trade for what it does is it not only breaks down the bar into the next
lower timeframe but it also takes into account all of the other lower timeframes So in our case it would
be the M5 and the 1 bar so here I've illustrated the hypothetical M1 bars for this one 15 bars and as
you can see there's 15 of them in here.
If we were working on the daily chart then the every tick model would take into account reference points
from the already charged from for our teacher from the 30 minute chart from the 15 minute five minute
and 1 minute chart.
So from all of the timeframes that are built up once again it takes the open high low and close prices
as reference points I haven't illustrated here.
But what it does it also models takes in between this price is because trader for actually knows how
many ticks there should be.
The Count of ticks is stored in Metatrader 4 and therefore it models the ticks in between those prices
using sophisticated wave models and so on.
But we don't need to go deeper than that penetrator For takes care of that.
Based on that our back Tests conducted and that is why it takes a much longer time than the other two
and that is also why it is much more precise because we have a lot more reference points.
And so the summary for these three models is that we'll go from bottom to top so the bottom one is open
prices model the least precise one.
When would you use the open prices model you would use it only if your if you want an indicative result
of the performance of the system.
Definitely something you shouldn't rely on but there are cases when you can actually legitimately use
the open prices model to test your Forex system.
And that is when your expert adviser only uses the open prices of the previous bars if that is the case
for your expert advice.
If he does if it doesn't take into account the OSC and the bid price or values of indicators within
the bar if it only works with the ready finalized bars and only looks at their open prices then you
can use the open prices model to legitimately test or optimize your 4 X system and that's a very important
point because it can save you a lot of time since the open prices model is the fastest of the three
.
There is not much point in using the every tick model if you're going to get the same result before
and prices also I've put in brackets here that if your expert was only used as close prices you can
still use this model.
And that's because of the open price is effectively the close price of the previous bar the control
points model it can also give you an indicative result which would be much closer to the actual result
of the system.
But also you can you should only use it for reference and you can also use the control points method
for legitimate testing of expert advisors which only use open high low and close prices of the finalized
bars which are to the left of the current one.
And finally the every tick model is the best quality model that you can get in Ameritrade for and it
should be used for testing of most expert advisers unless you have this intrinsic knowledge of the expert
advisor.
So you go back to the terminal and see how this all plays out in the tests or we'll just select the
moving average expert advisor as you can see here I've selected open prices.
I've set a date for the two previous months and will keep visual mode on.
And let's see how this works.
So as you can see and open prices the terminal is only generating 1 take for everybody.
It is drawing the whole bar but you should know that it's only taking into account the very first take
of every bar which represents the open price.
That is why this test is very quick and very precise.
If I speed this up it's are a done.
That's how quick it is and there's a result.
Now if we move on to control points and do the same thing you will notice that much more ticks generated
for every bar.
We'll zoom in quickly here and as you can see Menchu for is generating quite a few takes on every bar
.
It isn't too many but it is taking into account those reference points we talked about.
Once again this test is pretty quick so if I speed this up once again then it's finished already.
So now if I go to or go to the graph as you can see the results pretty much the same and appear you
have a warning message saying that this is control points and the results must not be considered.
Now if we do every tick and we slow this down we'll start this as you can see mental force collecting
and one daughter now will be collecting amphi or it already collected in 5.0 very quickly.
Basically it uses that data to generate those reference points and then model that takes in between
them.
So if we speed this up a little bit you'll see that there are quite a lot of takes being generated within
each bar and the test is progressing very quick not very quickly actually very slowly.
And that's why this method takes much longer but it is much more precise because you get that a large
number of ticks.
So if I speed this up it takes a bit longer to finalize that test.
We look at the graph it is similar again here.
There is no warning message it says every tick the most precise method based on all available this time
for us to generate each tick.
And it gives us the percentage or this is an indication of how precise your method is method was or
how relevant this test is in terms of real trading.
So it's got 89 59 percent.
And I think that anything above 80 percent is good.
Some people look for 90 or 95 percent modeling quality and you can improve that by downloading financial
data from your broker or other sources and uploading it to try to for and that's something we'll talk
about in further tutorials in this course.
This will be a tutorial just done on that topic.
And so one more thing before we finish off today's tutorial I'd like to give you a word of warning that
even though it's called retake it's not actually literally every take.
And I can prove this to you if we go into the history center here and we look at the bars of for years
dollar.
This basically shows you all the data of that store and met a trader for.
And if you go to the hourly charge you can see that mentor is for stores information on every bar and
only stores open high low close and volume volume is the number of ticks within that bar for M30.
It's the same thing for him 5 it's the same thing for him 1 it's the same thing.
The observation that we can make here is that there is no information on takes the lowest level of granularity
that meditated for stores is the one minute timeframe bars.
And it only has open high low and close price for them.
So in reality they were actually age takes within that bar.
But minutes later for only has four prices or for that bar.
And this is why there were 12 takes Metatrader 4 only has four prices.
And this is a historical phenomenon of metatrader 4 it has historically developed in such a way that
this platform doesn't store data that just means that even though it is cold the model is called Every
tick.
It's not actually taking every take into account that wasn't reality and that is why you have this percentage
that that's why it tells you that the accuracy of the model in this case is approximately 90 percent
.
You will probably never get 100 percent for that specific reason that military force doesn't store data
Having said that the tests that are trained for allows you to conduct are very accurate especially if
every tick they yield pretty good results.
And I certainly in my train carry I have relied on them for testing of my systems and I'm generally
happy with for what meditator for allows me to see using this every tech model from most expert advisors
.
So that's the end of today's tutorial.
I hope that it is useful.
It was a bit longer than usual but personally I think that this information is very important.
To further understand what's happening in the background of meditator for conducting these tests that's
all for today.
Hope to see you next time.
And until then happy trading